It was just
dumb luck, honestly.
I found the radio parts
in a dumpster
behind the municipal building.
They'd never be left there,
for security reasons.
So someone clearly thought
it was trash.
But it wasn't trash.
It just needed some love.
I have the most
vivid memory of a ice cream shop
with the most marvelous batch
of black raspberry ice cream.
The Inside Scoop?
I used to go there all the time.
Hell, we might have been there
on the same day.
Well, knowing this, there is
a critical question needs answering.
What's that?
Cake, cone or waffle?
That's how we started talking.
And we talked about everything.
Everything and nothing.
I just can't help
but believe that this is
a celestially-ordained
meet and greet.
No bean spillage here either.
But, Eugene, my people
are uber cautious.
And if we're close...
I never thought about leaving
this place before.
Well, I did, but I never let myself
believe it was possible.
Truth is, Stephanie,
I'd just very much like to meet you.
But then my brother
got involved.
And he was not happy.
God damn it.
It's not what you think.
Oh, yeah?
You want to know what I did today?
I investigated a massive
communications breach.
Apparently someone,
on an unauthorized radio station,
has been talking to a rogue
community outside of our walls.
Well, then. Hornsby's all over it.
Tell me it wasn't you.
Please tell me that you are not
about to sneak out
to meet some stranger
at a rail yard.
What could I say?
Max,
it's dangerous.
For everyone at the Commonwealth,
but especially for me and you.
I gotta go.
You better pray Hornsby
doesn't realize that was your voice.
I knew I had crossed a line.
And with Hornsby on the prowl,
getting out to see you
was impossible.
And then you turn up
with some other girl
calling herself Stephanie.
Using my words.
- Extra sprinkles, please.
- Got it.
My voice.
Excuse me.
That wouldn't happen to be
rocky road there, would it?
You seemed so happy.
So I kept my head down.
I didn't know what else to do.
Thank you, Max.
Can I get you anything else?
Ice cream, tea?
A day without my son acting like
a little asshole?
I'll get you that ice cream.
And, Max, have the bank cut off
Sebastian's line of credit.
Maybe that will whip him into shape.
I've got news.
Then Hornsby
came to see Pamela.
And he was buzzing about you
and Alexandria.
- I never...
- What's he planning?
I don't know.
He's ambitious.
Could mean anything.
Could mean nothing,
just the rebuild.
The big guy in the orange armor
who hates me?
That's your brother?
- Yes, but, Eugene...
- And you...
You're Stephanie?
No.
I'm Max.
There is no Stephanie.
- Well, it was my mother's name...
- I'm sorry.
- So...
This is a long way
from home, Lance.
It is, but these communities are
perfect for what we're envisioning.
What you're envisioning.
I'm not convinced we need to
stretch our resources like this.
Grow your empire further than
your power can extend
and lose your empire.
I don't think it's quite
that dramatic.
Well, how's this for dramatic?
If this doesn't go well, we're out.
These people are free to stay
with us permanently
or they can go home and finish
their own repairs.
There's enough to do at home
without having to worry about
a couple of small communities
in another state.
Give it a chance, Pamela.
I really think
you might be surprised.
Oh, God.
Let's wrap it up, okay?
They're coming.
Hey.
Keep it down.
Hey, cover that window.
Hello there. Welcome.
Aaron.
Pamela Milton.
A pleasure.
Care for the grand tour?
- I would expect nothing less.
- Okay.
Alexandria was a self-sustaining
ecological community.
We have water, solar panels
and a crop system.
Who was the engineer?
I don't recall anyone from intake.
No one, actually.
We got the plans from the leader
of an allied community, Maggie Rhee.
Some of our people studied
the blueprints and we built it.
Fascinating.
How do you keep a place like this
safe, with it being so isolated?
It wasn't easy.
Fought a lot of fights.
You were one of the leaders here?
Yeah, I guess you could say that.
We all were.
What'd you do before all this?
Didn't matter.
At least, not to us anyway.
She looks just how I remember her.
What, you knew her?
Oh, we used to cross paths
quite a bit in philanthropy circles
back in the day.
But I had no interest in politics
at the time.
She, however,
was born to run things.
What was she like as a leader?
She brought us in.
We'd never met anybody
like that before.
You admire her.
Yeah, very much so.
I mean, she built all this for us.
Something worth fighting for.
But it fell.
Yeah, but we always
brought it right back.
It fell more than once?
Code 1016. North wall.
- Yeah.
- We've got a breach.
Stay here, ma'am.
I got it.
Shit.
How did you lose Deanna?
She was bitten.
Did she turn?
We had to put her down, yes.
I think I've seen
enough here.
Morning, Ezekiel. Jerry.
And a good morning to you too, sir.
Okay, let's get into it.
So, nothing but water morning of.
No food, no solids.
We need you on an empty stomach.
Sorry?
Doc, we're just here
for a routine check-up.
I was told this is
pre-op blood work.
Make sure he's stable enough
for the surgery.
- Surgery?
- To take out this tumor.
Did no one tell you?
I thought I was still on the list.
Well, now you're at the top
of that list.
You're lucky.
Some people wait years.
- What about his bill?
- It's paid up.
Well, however it came to pass,
I'm thrilled.
We're going to take
good care of you, Ezekiel.
Rest up. See you Friday at 9:00.
This is so fricking awesome!
What is it?
How did this happen?
Come on, boss. This is good news.
Maybe it's coincidence,
maybe it's a clerical error.
Maybe it's divine intervention,
but either way,
don't you think you deserve
a little luck?
Pamela.
Rachel's ready for you.
You're blessed
to have this at your doorstep.
We know.
I heard how Oceanside came to be.
About your battles with the Saviors
and the Whisperers.
Says a lot about the strength
of your community.
I'm excited to have you as partners
of the Commonwealth.
Aaron mentioned there was
a trade provision
that you'd like worked into
our agreement.
Something wrong?
We spoke to Maggie Rhee,
the leader of Hilltop. She told us
she's not partnered with you all.
We offered Hilltop
the same agreement
as with Alexandria,
but Maggie declined.
Alexandria has gone its own way
before, but Hilltop and Maggie
have always been there for us.
We renewed
our mutual protection pact
and I'm gonna honor it.
If Maggie decides to partner
with you,
we will too, out of respect for her.
Otherwise, Oceanside's a no.
Question, what was
the point of bringing you along
if you can't give me
any helpful intel
in advance of shit
blowing up in our faces?
Your people have been
fixing up Alexandria.
It's not my fault the walker got in.
You should have known
about Rachel and Hilltop.
Because I'm a mind reader?
How do you think this little detour
looks to Pamela?
It looks like we're not prepared.
It looks like you're not prepared.
Lance, you know Pamela, all right.
I don't.
You didn't anticipate this?
It's not my problem.
Stop acting like Alexandria means
more to you than it does to me.
Right now, you and I
want the same thing.
Which means you and I
are in the same sinking boat.
Is Maggie gonna make this
difficult for us?
Fabulous.
So you know,
this is all-or-nothing for Pamela.
So, if Maggie says no
and Oceanside walks,
Alexandria is cut off.
Then we'll figure it out.
Sure.
'Cause it was going so well
before we stepped in.
You all right?
At ease.
You must be Maggie.
I already ate. Thanks.
Well, I'll just leave it right here.
There you go.
It's good to see you guys.
Maggie...
Why do you trust these people?
Who says we do?
And when do I ever?
Fair enough.
It's good to see Alexandria
getting cleaned up, though.
At least their word meant something.
Yeah. There's, like,
fifty thousand people living there.
At least 49.9 seem like
decent enough folks.
And it's not forever.
You sure you don't want to come
with us?
You don't have to do this alone.
Hey, sorry to interrupt.
The forward unit picked up a swarm.
We have some extra rifles with us.
So, while they're handling that,
Governor Milton proposed
that we all go hunting.
If you're up for that.
We'll scare all the food away
stomping around like this.
I'll go with Maggie and you boys
pair off.
Don't need a minder
this time, General. We'll be fine.
How did things get so bad?
How do they ever?
I've met so many communities
and I still can't figure out
what makes some lucky
and able to fight off the world
while others can't.
I don't believe in luck.
That's interesting.
I'm sensing more of an opinion.
I mean, luck is about opportunity.
I don't know anybody who's had
more opportunity than you.
Well, since we're being honest...
Cards on the table, Maggie.
I didn't want to come on this tour.
I have thousands of people
under my care
and that responsibility
keeps me up at night.
That's the price of leadership.
Everything costs something.
For me, it's sleep.
Do you know what I think about
at 3:00 a.m?
Who can we trust?
How do we stay safe?
Your communities are small
by our standards.
I wasn't sure the risk of going back
and forth would be worth it.
Then why are you here?
The right allies make us stronger.
This world belongs to us,
not the dead.
Meeting all of you,
hearing all your stories,
it's confirmed
what I've always believed.
There's a natural order to things
that has vanished.
And that order needs to be restored.
It provides a future for our kids.
Fifteen million little city-states
fighting each other for power
and resources
is never going
to be able to provide
that kind of stability.
I am offering you the same thing
your mutual protection pact
with Oceanside did.
Someone who has your back.
Yeah.
- Hey. Hey. Hey.
- Hey.
I just thought I'd see
how you were doing.
I'm cooking, actually.
Uh...
You hungry?
- Nabila and Jerry left me a buffet.
- Okay.
- It's crispy.
- Yeah. Why not?
Here.
Jerry said you had a check-up today.
Anything come up?
It's a funny thing.
What?
Tomi said I was scheduled
for surgery.
- They bumped me up in the line.
- Oh!
That's good. That's great.
That's great.
- Right?
- Wait.
Did you...
What did you do?
I didn't...
My debt was wiped out.
Hornsby owed me a favor.
It's cheating!
Why would you do that?
- Because I don't want you to die.
- Carol!
Those lines are a lie.
Do you think Pamela Milton
would think twice
before doing the same thing
for her shitty son?
Have you been inside
that hospital, Carol?
Because if you had been,
you'd see all those people.
Suffering.
Same as me.
Waiting for treatment.
You're supposed to just die
because the system is broken?
Lesser men have been given more
and done nothing with it.
You are not a lesser man.
I think that's called
an autocracy.
No, it's not.
Liberties haven't gone anywhere.
You're the leader at Hilltop.
You make the decisions.
You consider yourself an autocrat?
I lead the way I was taught
by Deanna and Georgie.
The communities that we built
are fair.
The Commonwealth is fair.
Yeah, but you drive a nicer car
and live in a nicer house
than everybody else.
I have more responsibilities
than the average worker.
A leader has to give her people
something to look up to.
All right. Well, I want people
to look up to what I've done.
And what I do,
not what I have that they don't.
Behind you.
You want it?
Or shall I?
Well, I was thinking about
going after the one behind you.
Hey.
Hey, come on now.
- You okay?
- I'm great.
How are you?
- You've got a great poker face.
- Thank you.
How's the new job going?
You know. It's a lot.
Do you regret coming here?
Do you?
So, you like it here?
We all get to be together.
Everyone's safe.
So, it works for now.
Going with the flow.
Didn't think I'd end up basically
a cop.
But I'm pretty good at it, so...
You're pretty damn good
at everything you do, Rosita.
Thanks, Eugene.
I do miss home, though.
Yeah.
I miss going outside the walls.
I miss the freedom
that we used to have.
But it'll come.
When Alexandria
is fixed back up again.
When people have choices
and that's good, you know.
You're excited about the future?
Yeah, I guess I am.
Eugene, what is it? Spill.
I was thinking about
when we first met.
And how I was lying to you.
About who I was,
about Washington, D.C. and...
It was a long time ago, Eugene.
And we found our home,
so going with the flow works for me.
Eugene, what is it?
Get it out. You'll feel better.
Stephanie...
isn't missing.
I saw her.
She just...
broke up with me.
She broke up with me.
Eugene, I'm so sorry.
She wasn't who I thought she was.
Screw her.
You can do so much better.
And you're gonna find your person.
She's out there. I promise.
Hey.
They meant everything they said.
All the troopers that came back
with us,
they're working on reinforcing
the water tower right now.
You went hunting with them?
- Yeah, it's not much, but it's...
- More than we've had in weeks.
Yeah.
- We'll get dinner started.
- All right. Thanks.
Is everyone okay?
Yeah, yeah. Everyone seems relieved.
I'm hoping this means we can
actually get some sleep tonight.
- Daryl. Hey.
- Hi.
Was wondering when you'd come back.
- Hey.
- How you holding up?
It's okay. I don't know.
We're doing our best.
- Yeah.
- I just feel like
maybe some things just
can't be fixed, you know?
Just feels kind of
pointless sometimes.
- I hear you.
- How do you know when?
When what?
When it's time to walk away.
Is that what you want to do?
Hey, Maggie.
Is it okay if we hand out
some supplies?
We have more than enough.
Food, fuel.
Sure. Thank you.
Great. We're on it.
You two, come with me.
Hey, Daryl, look what I got.
Oh, my God.
Hey, we're gonna pass out some food.
- You want to help us?
- Yeah.
You take the big one.
- Give this to Elijah.
- Okay.
It must be hard
to be a kid out here.
He grew up on the road.
He's a different kind of kid.
Your friend, she like
torturing herself out here?
This place used to be
really special, different.
It's going through hard times now,
but it'll be back up and running.
Just watch.
I guess not all places
are as lucky as Alexandria.
Not all places are as lucky
as Commonwealth.
Are you coming around?
I wouldn't go that far.
But you guys have
done good stuff for us.
So, I don't know.
I'll give you that.
Commonwealth ain't perfect, though.
What? You think?
Just don't get too comfortable.
The only reason you're out
of your armor is because
someone thought it would be good
for appearances.
You've got your role to play.
I got mine.
I'll be here when you wake up.
Pizza, ice cream, the works.
No...
No pineapple.
I'm serious, Jerry.
Pineapple on pizza makes no sense.
Pizza?
You're not eating anything
but Jell-O for a while, hotshot.
Nervous twitch?
Lucky coin.
I had a lucky rabbit's foot once.
My dog brought it home with
the rabbit still attached to it.
My old man gave this to me.
When I was a kid,
I thought it was made of gold.
Turns out it's just gold plated.
Inside, same as a lowly nickel.
Have you decided yet?
What do you get out of all this?
Come on, Maggie.
Let's not pretend the obvious
isn't staring us in the face.
You're in over your head.
You don't know me very well.
I know you're smart enough to know
a good offer when you hear it.
And I'm smart enough to know
I've just pissed you off.
You haven't answered my question.
All right, I'll bite.
The first time I went to Alexandria,
I could see it, the potential.
Maggie, do you really believe
that Hilltop,
as it currently stands,
is the best you'll ever have?
Or Alexandria? Or even Oceanside?
Look around.
We can have so much more.
Imagine being able
to pick Hershel up
from a concert at the Commonwealth.
Take him to a doctor's appointment
in Alexandria.
And then jump in a boat
at Oceanside,
traveling up the coast.
And what's up that coast?
Another port town?
Another school?
How about a university?
Have you ever imagined being able
to drop your son off
for his freshman year at college?
I tried to build it.
Of course you did.
Because you and I see things
the same way.
Imagine the world you want to build.
Hold it in your mind.
Now, picture the power
of 50,000 Commonwealth workers
helping to make that vision
a reality.
Think what you could
accomplish then.
Swarm incoming.
This way.
Fire!
Imagine not having to deal with this
every time that alarm goes off.
Yeah, we could keep building.
No more starts and stops.
I know there's
a lot to consider, but...
I mean, look around.
We need this.
I know.
Formation!
Let's go!
You take the west side.
You take the east side
and you take the...
- Dixon, fall in.
- Hold up.
Hey.
Remember they're always watching.
Got me?
Yeah. Yeah, I got it.
Left face. Forward march!
- Never a dull moment here, is there?
- Mmm.
We try.
Everyone okay?
Yeah, no injuries, all limbs intact.
I'd call that a good day.
But the Hilltop is going
to pass on your offer.
Can I ask why?
Because, like you said,
everything costs something.
No, please don't shut the door.
Found some raspberry goodness
of the Inside Scoop variety.
It's not exactly
black raspberry, but...
Please, it's very cold.
I'm so sorry, Max,
for my ungentlemanlike behavior.
For running away,
for not listening.
I was bruised and confused.
- You were pretty damn rude.
- I was.
Indeed.
I let Hornsby get
inside my head,
and it was an infiltration
of the most epic proportions.
He is a snake.
Like a worm.
I let an imposter into my heart
and my home.
I let her read my manuscript.
Manuscript?
I...
I'm writing a novel.
Was a sepulcher involved?
Obviously.
Did it take place in
the Carpathian Mountains?
- Carpathian Mountains, yes.
- You let her read it?
- I thought she was you.
- I know but, Eugene, how?
After all that time
we spent together,
everything we told each other.
How could you not know
it wasn't me?
I don't know.
I guess...
I figured out a long time ago
that I'm not like most folks.
I got used to rejection PDQ.
Didn't even realize it was rejection
some of the times, but...
Well, suffice it to say,
it happened a fair amount.
So, there was a part of me
that always wondered
if our connection
was all in my head.
But when I got here and she didn't
push me away.
I just so badly wanted this
to be real.
And subtle cues escape me sometimes.
Anyway, I never meant
to hurt you, Max.
But my intent does not excuse
my impact.
How can I make this up to you?
Will you allow me to try?
I don't know.
Can I read your novel?
Well, as ill fortune would have it,
you came upon me whilst I was
burning the only physical copy.
However, I have committed
much of the text to memory.
What was the concept?
A gumshoe, by the name of
Steph Portman, is caught up
in a rollicking international caper,
trying to avert nuclear disaster
and navigate the intricacies
of the legal bureaucracies
back at home.
You didn't make the
district attorney corrupt, did you?
Certainly not.
That would have surprised
exactly no one.
I did, however, give him
an unsavory twin brother.
Hmm.
Evil twin. Nice.
Yeah, I thought so.
You should make the twin
a scientist.
Ramp up the stakes
on the nuclear threat.
That is exactly what I did.
What?
It just felt like old times.
Here. I got something for you.
It's from Judith.
She says in case you're making
Hershel eat more horse meat.
Oh, God.
- It was good to see you.
- Yeah.
You be careful.
If you need me,
you know where to find me.
Same for you.
Dianne?
I'm leaving, Maggie.
Some of the others are coming
with me
and you should too.
You need to be careful
who you trust.
You know that better than anybody.
You also have to know
when to ask for help.
It's harder than it has ever been
and it doesn't have to be.
I respect the hell out of you.
But I can't do this anymore.
I'm sorry.
- It was a worthy effort, Lance.
- It's not over.
It doesn't have to be.
It's time to go home.
We still have Alexandria.
I just need time
to get the other two.
It was a bold move trying to bring
three new communities into the fold.
I get why something like that
would be appealing to you.
Someone needs to run them, right?
That selection would be
at your discretion.
Obviously.
I'm going to pretend that
you were doing this
for the good of the Commonwealth
rather than for yourself.
I was doing this for you.
You've been ambitious
our whole lives, Lance.
Ambition is notoriously hard
to reel in, so...
If you want to try
and make it work, fine.
But if your job at home
starts to suffer,
there will be consequences.
The Commonwealth always comes first.
Lance.
Lance, you okay?
A-plus.
What did she say about Alexandria?
We good?
Everything's fine.
Pamela's on board.
In fact, we're gonna bring
even more people in.
Get ready, Aaron.
We're going to remake the world.